>> Maximiliano Firtman: So here,
you sometimes you think, but
if it's a multi-page application,
do we need vanilla JavaScript or
do we need JavaScript at all?
Well, we are going to see less
available design patterns, but
there are still some
things that we can do.
So let's cover some of them, but
first let's define multi-page application.
This is just a traditional web application
architecture where you have each page of
the application is a different HTML
document that you serve from the server.
Server side, it can be,
you can have a framework server side that
is creating those pages, or
it can be server side generated.
So it can be a static website, or
they can be just plain HTML files, okay?
It doesn't matter, but from a client
point of view, you have different HTMLs,
and you link those HTMLs.
So for example, remember
View Transitions from five minutes ago?
Well, do you know that we can do
the same for multi page applications?
I think this is one of the biggest
reasons a lot of people
are deciding single-page applications.
Because if you need to click on a link and
then you need to load the whole page,
the user will see a white page
until the next page is loaded.
Well, now, we can use View Transition for
multi-page applications to
avoid seeing the white flash.
So we are going to use
the View Transition API for
cross-documents that's brand new, and
it's available in Chrome since Chrome 126.
Use cases,
well make multi-page applications
feel like single page applications.
Like it's everything is there, okay?
For example,
you can also use this to morph one
element from page A from one HTML,
into another
element of the next page,
which is kind of cool.
Another design pattern, prefetch.
So I think that one was in my
2006 book on Ajax patterns.
So the difference is the implementation.
Prefetch, the idea is that when
we have a multi-page application,
we have this problem of performance.
When the user is navigating the app,
it needs to wait.
When you click something, it needs
to wait for the next page to appear.
Well, you can prefetch or pre-render that,
typically we use prefetch
as an umbrella term.
But then we have a specific
ways to do that.
It can be prefetch,
it can be pre-render, pre-connect.
And the idea is that we can try to guess,
we can estimate what is
the most probable next page for
that user, and
ask the browser to prefetch it.
That's kind of the idea.
There are different
techniques to do that today,
including using the Cache Storage
with Service Workers.
So if you know about service workers,
you can actually prefetch some assets
including HTML, the next page.
So when the user clicks on the next page,
it's already there.
It's already client-side,
so it will be fast enough.
But we will use in our project a new one,
Speculation Rules API.
Not sure if you have even heard about it.
So use case is to prefetch or pre-render
the most probable next page on every HTML.
What's the difference between prefetch and
pre-render?